=============
{% trans %}0.9.3 Release{% endtrans %}
=============
.. meta::
   :date: 2012-10-27
   :category: release
   :excerpt: {% trans %}0.9.3 includes extensive low-level changes to the queueing of messages in the router. We implement the CoDel Active Queue Management (AQM) algorithm. We also unify the queueing and priority mechanisms in the transports to aid diagnosis and reduce network latency. Work continues on fixing UDP transport bugs and making UDP more resistant to attacks. There are more changes to improve the performance of the router and reduce its memory usage. Also, we enable i2psnark's DHT support, introduced last release, by default.{% endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
0.9.3 includes extensive low-level changes to the queueing of messages in the router.
We implement the CoDel Active Queue Management (AQM) algorithm.
We also unify the queueing and priority mechanisms in the transports to aid diagnosis and reduce network latency.
Work continues on fixing UDP transport bugs and making UDP more resistant to attacks.
There are more changes to improve the performance of the router and reduce its memory usage.
Also, we enable i2psnark's DHT support, introduced last release, by default.
As usual, there's also lots of bug fixes in this release, so updating is recommended.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
Files are available on the `download page`_.
{%- endtrans %}

.. _{% trans %}`download page`{% endtrans %}: {{ get_url('downloads_list') }}

**{% trans %}RELEASE DETAILS{% endtrans %}**

**{% trans %}Major Changes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Active Queue Management{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Priority queues{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}I2PSnark DHT: Several bug fixes, enable by default.{% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}Bug Fixes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Several SSU fixes including memory leak, and better handling of routers behind firewalls that change UDP ports; additional defenses for malicious packets.{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix piece selection (rarest-first) bugs in i2psnark{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix bug causing multiple browsers to open at startup{% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}Other{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Improvements in caching{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Several synchronization fixes and lock contention reduction{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Major reduction in SSU buffers memory use{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix streaming connection timeout back to 1 minute, was inadvertently changed to 5 minutes; set i2ptunnel server read timeout to 5 minutes, was unlimited{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Improved defenses in i2ptunnel for "darkloris"{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}More validation at torrent creation in i2psnark{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Several parameter changes in SSU to improve throughput{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}New event log for major events including restarts; show multiple restart lines on graphs{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Remove duplicate messages from logs{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Don't respond to blocked streaming connections with a reset, just drop{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Remove all uses of inefficient SimpleTimer{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}More checks for valid IPs and ports entered in console{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix bug that wasted a lot of entropy{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Translation updates: Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Add non-NIO configuration in jetty.xml, recommended for Java 5{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Update GeoIP data (new installs and PPA only){% endtrans %}


**{% trans %}SHA256 Checksums:{% endtrans %}**

::

    762964ab582801be1c9d45843c682f791c284d4fa7b1e1ee733ea4ef033d4907  i2pinstall_0.9.3_windows.exe
    4ebea74b30064c9853c40cf24764d283dc6fff47ed2449b247f3c9991cccb494  i2pinstall_0.9.3.jar
    39a7d6859bf4bd9ac56fd83a5e32d47d1b24ba06f912a027804492ca941936dd  i2psource_0.9.3.tar.bz2
    2381e4a845c6cc0c0d9f27f99571984bcbf448ef041bc1f7a2ba8715228d6377  i2pupdate_0.9.3.zip
    d8bb6aef09c967b30c7374fb49da246a7c237c4942fa92999e39c5ce2ca68893  i2pupdate.su2
    600e806e72441e946027fcac84702f2daabd2783dbc1ee6df3427e6eda7db351  i2pupdate.sud
