===========================================
{% trans -%}1.8.0 Release{%- endtrans %}
===========================================

.. meta::
   :author: zzz
   :date: 2022-05-23
   :category: release
   :excerpt: {% trans %}1.8.0 with bug fixes{% endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
Update details
{%- endtrans %}
============================================


{% trans -%}
This release includes bug fixes in i2psnark,
the router, I2CP, and UPnP.
Router fixes address bugs in soft restart, IPv6, SSU peer testing,
network database stores, and tunnel building.
Router family handling and Sybil classification have also been
significantly improved.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
Together with i2pd, we are developing our new UDP transport, SSU2.
SSU2 will bring substantial performance and security improvements.
It will also allow us to finally replace our last usage of the very slow ElGamal encryption,
completing the full cryptography upgrade we started about 9 years ago.
This release contains a preliminary implementation which is disabled by default.
If you wish to participate in testing, please look for current information
on zzz.i2p.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
As usual, we recommend that you update to this release. The best way to
maintain security and help the network is to run the latest release.
{%- endtrans %}


**{% trans %}RELEASE DETAILS{% endtrans %}**

**{% trans %}Changes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}SSU2: Preliminary implementation{% endtrans %}
- Tomcat 9.0.62


**{% trans %}Bug Fixes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Crypto: Fix handling of EdDSA certs with official OID{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}I2CP: Fix external connections when session ID is 0{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}I2PSnark: Fix size calculation causing tracker errors{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}I2PSnark standalone: More fixes and improvements{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Router: Family fixes and improvements{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Router: Fix database store logic{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Router: Fix invalid store and rekeying at startup{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Router: Don't use he.net addresses for GeoIP{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Router: Soft restart fixes{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}SSU: Peer test fixes{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}SSU: Publish empty IPv6 address when missing introducers{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}SSU: Reduce ack delay to improve performance{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Transport: Fix UPnP deadlock{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Tunnels: Don't build client tunnels shorter than minimum length{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}UPnP: IPv6 fixes{% endtrans %}


**{% trans %}Other{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}API version{% endtrans %}: 0.9.54
- {% trans %}Console: Setup wizard redesign{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}i2psnark: Load system mime types if available{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}I2PSnark standalone: Add system tray{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Router: Reduce build reply timeout so we will retry faster{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Router: Avoid Sybil penalty for trusted large families{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Source: Remove BOB{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Translation updates{% endtrans %}



`{% trans %}Full list of fixed bugs{% endtrans %}`__

__ http://{{ i2pconv('git.idk.i2p') }}/i2p-hackers/i2p.i2p/-/issues?scope=all&state=closed&milestone_title=1.8.0


**{% trans %}SHA256 Checksums:{% endtrans %}**

::

      738b7608d7f2c6433dcde8a1cbd7ea025d281e90b45c8695385004625a4c88d1  i2pinstall_1.8.0_windows.exe
      ee49cad06fd73e75ed25eaab342f8167e447b901205ee8593a31b5a599d892af  i2pinstall_1.8.0.jar
      525f2ad3267f130b81296b3dd24102fdcf2adf098d54272da4e1be4abd87df04  i2psource_1.8.0.tar.bz2
      446ac94969163bce514aca6bb408cb72d1b8d9bd65fe22e773ec3bcad142db21  i2pupdate_1.8.0.zip
      3379fe757eecbf20688ee37685fe52f15ac04fd59e891c6a059a33d519c4ff19  i2pupdate.su3
