I2P dev meeting, September 8, 2010
==================================

Quick recap
-----------

*Present:*
  duck, eche|on, Mathiasdm, Moru (later on), superuser, whitenoise, zzz

*Website content progress:*
  The website overhaul has taken 7 weeks so far. Progress is not fast enough. We need more people to join in!

*Website backend progress:*
  No report yet, welterde could not attend the meeting.

*Location for development discussion:*
  Most people agree that IRC is not an ideal location to post long-winded development discussions, it's too volatile, not backed up and not everyone can read it. **All developers are advised to post their discussions (or a writeup) to another medium, like zzz.i2p, mailing lists or forum.i2p**.
  Opinions on the alternatives are a bit more divided. zzz.i2p is currently the location for most discussions, but a number of people also like the idea of a mailing list. No decision has been made on which alternative would be best suited.

*Task appointing and disagreements:*
  Currently, people appoint themselves to a task by editing the team.html page (this requires monotone access, so there is at least a level of trust implied before being allowed to appoint yourself).
  However, what happens if people disagree?
  The discussion pointed out that when disagreeing, a discussion should be held (for example on zzz.i2p). If that doesn't resolve the issue, a vote is a possibility, or the Project Manager (zzz) or repository maintainers (welterde, eche|on) can make a decision.

*Status updates:*
  Status updates will be started next weekend. They will mostly consist of a 'what work did you do last week?' and 'what work will you do next week?'.

*Development conferences:*
  Nothing big was mentioned.

*Promoting the usage of the bittorrent protocol inside I2P: pros and cons:*
  Filesharing in general and bittorrent more specifically can be either good or bad for I2P.
  On one hand, they could give I2P a bad reputation. On the other hand, they could boost I2P popularity.
  What to do?
  Filesharing on I2P will not be promoted specifically. Instead, general usability should be looked at and improved.
  If people decide to use filesharing on I2P (or any other service, like e-mail or browsing), it should become easier as a result of improving the usability.

Full IRC Log
------------
