=======================================
{% trans %}0.9.8 Release{% endtrans %}
=======================================

.. meta::
   :date: 2013-09-30
   :category: release
   :excerpt: {% trans %}0.9.8 includes the long-awaited support for IPv6. It's enabled by default, but of course you need a public IPv6 address to use it. Configuration is on the 'network' configuration tab in your console. We also have anonymity improvements including padding of SSU packets and longer router private keys.{% endtrans %}

{% trans %}0.9.8 includes the long-awaited support for IPv6. It's enabled by default, but of course you need a public IPv6 address to use it. Configuration is on the 'network' configuration tab in your console. We also have anonymity improvements including padding of SSU packets and longer router private keys.{% endtrans %}

{% trans pc='%' %}30{{pc}} of you will update via in-network torrent in this update cycle.{% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}IPv6 Details{% endtrans %}**

{% trans -%}
IPv6 is enabled and preferred by default. If you have a public IPv6 address 
and you are connecting to another router with a published IPv6 address, it will 
connect via IPv6. There is a new IPv6 configuration section on /confignet in 
the router console. If IPv6 is causing problems you may disable it there.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
As a part of the IPv6 development effort, I2P now supports multiple 
published IP addresses. If you have multiple public IP addresses (IPv4, IPv6, 
or both), you may enable or disable them individually on /confignet. The 
default is to use the first IPv4 and IPv6 addresses it discovers. If you have 
multiple addresses you should review the configuration on /confignet and adjust 
it if necessary.
Note that while you may enable multiple IPv4 and IPv6 addresses on /confignet,
we recommend that you use only one IPv4 and one IPv6 address. There are
bugs still to be fixed with multiple addresses of each type.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
While IPv6 support was designed and developed over several years, it has 
only been tested by a limited number of users and is still beta. If you do have 
a public IPv6 address, please monitor your router and the logs for problems, 
and disable it necessary. Please report any bugs on 
http://trac.i2p2.i2p.
{%- endtrans %}

**{% trans %}Rekeying Details{% endtrans %}**

{% trans -%}
For those of you running I2P on faster hardware (generally, 64-bit x86) the 
router will generate a new identity using longer keys. This will substantially 
reduce your participating traffic for 48 hours or more, while your router 
re-integrates into the network. Due to the new keys, the large number of 
torrent updates, and the recent network growth, we expect substantial 
disruption to the network for a week or more after the update is released. 
Please be patient and things should start to improve after a few days.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
These changes may result in higher CPU usage for some of you. We're doing 
our best to increase efficiency, but stronger security generally requires more 
computation. Performance may also be poor during the first week
due to the network churn.
We will evaluate the network performace before deciding whether to
change the key length on slower hardware in a future release.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
We are experiencing rapid network growth in the last few weeks, which is 
causing a bit of a bumpy ride for some, especially on weekends. However, the 
network is still performing fairly well, so keep spreading the word.
{%- endtrans %}

**{% trans %}More Changes Coming{% endtrans %}**

{% trans -%}
We're in the initial stages of desiging major changes to strengthen our 
crypto. Stronger crypto will use more CPU and it may possibly 
require a Java 7 JRE at a minimum. We understand your desire to run I2P on low-power 
and/or older hardware. We're working hard to minimize the impacts, but some 
loss of performance is inevitable. In addition, Java 5 and 6 are no longer 
supported by Oracle. Now is a good time to upgrade to Java 7. Any change in 
minimum requirements will be announced well in advance.
{%- endtrans %}

**{% trans %}New Website{% endtrans %}**

{% trans -%}
After a heroic effort by str4d, the new website preview is available at 
http://i2hq.srv.i2p2.de. We hope to see it go live at 
https://geti2p.net and http://www.i2p2.i2p soon.  Please 
contribute to the new website translations on Transifex, especially the 
website_priority resource.
{%- endtrans %}

**{% trans %}Community Participation{% endtrans %}**

{% trans -%}
In early August, hottuna and zzz attended DEFCON 21 in Las Vegas.
Last weekend, echelon attended the CTS IV conference in Berlin and
psi attended the Tahoe-LAFS hackfest at GNU 30 in Cambridge, Mass.
Several of us will be at 30C3 in Hamburg late this year.
It's great to see people participating at these events and representing I2P.
{%- endtrans %}

**{% trans %}RELEASE DETAILS{% endtrans %}**

**{% trans %}Major Changes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}IPv6 support for both NTCP and SSU{% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}Anonymity Improvements{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}SSU protocol obfuscation by adding random padding{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Longer encryption and DH private keys for users on faster platforms{% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}Bug Fixes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Fix I2PTunnel / I2CP locking and duplicates (partial){% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix translation of HTTP proxy error pages{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix occasional runtime exception in NTCP{% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}Other{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Big rework of transport code to accommodate multiple addresses and IPv6{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Streaming: Improved recovery from lost acks, other fixes{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Use Transifex for translation of initial news and HTTP proxy error pages{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Translation updates: Chinese, French, German, Portuguese, Russian, Swedish, Turkish{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}New Romanian translation{% endtrans %}
- Jetty 7.6.12.v20130726
- {% trans %}Wrapper 3.5.20 (new installs and PPA only){% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Update GeoIP data (new installs and PPA only){% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}SHA256 Checksums:{% endtrans %}**

::

    5a863c43dc986087e5a5facd02b8ede32e1903bad1f4531bff95e61eab0facaf  i2pinstall_0.9.8_windows.exe
    8af3f933346d76ac67ce814d7f991bbc00fa31c23124313841dbef9ae7bcf908  i2pinstall_0.9.8.jar
    787d1fe113398dfcec25d7daaca4e4093f309cb3e622b80757bcdf0558472041  i2psource_0.9.8.tar.bz2
    24a08305228b817f87e251af74c4b5e9d1726de8d7d64c17bc2ede5511d42e58  i2pupdate_0.9.8.zip
    76b049da4e02b96e9e05eaf69b2e8214a6d6874385ab2d82c2885379ccd65278  i2pupdate.su2
    dba0f8e4660cb9147c50b7b3c4a0f95d342cfc65a51e0d37e445bc72026ed05f  i2pupdate.sud
