=============================
Tunnel Creation Specification
=============================
.. meta::
    :lastupdated: September 2014
    :accuratefor: 0.9.15


.. _tunnelCreate.overview:

Overview
========

This document specifies the details of the encrypted tunnel build messages used
to create tunnels using a "non-interactive telescoping" method.  See the tunnel
build document [TUNNEL-IMPL]_ for an overview of the process, including peer
selection and ordering methods.

The tunnel creation is accomplished by a single message passed along the path
of peers in the tunnel, rewritten in place, and transmitted back to the tunnel
creator.  This single tunnel message is made up of a variable number of records
(up to 8) - one for each potential peer in the tunnel.   Individual records are
asymmetrically (ElGamal [CRYPTO-ELG]_) encrypted to be read only by a specific
peer along the path, while an additional symmetric layer of encryption (AES
[CRYPTO-AES]_) is added at each hop so as to expose the asymmetrically
encrypted record only at the appropriate time.

.. _number:

Number of Records
-----------------

Not all records must contain valid data.  The build message for a 3-hop tunnel,
for example, may contain more records to hide the actual length of the tunnel
from the participants.  There are two build message types. The original Tunnel
Build Message ([TBM]_) contains 8 records, which is more than enough for any
practical tunnel length.  The newer Variable Tunnel Build Message ([VTBM]_)
contains 1 to 8 records. The originator may trade off the size of the message
with the desired amount of tunnel length obfuscation.

In the current network, most tunnels are 2 or 3 hops long.  The current
implementation uses a 5-record VTBM to build tunnels of 4 hops or less, and the
8-record TBM for longer tunnels.  The 5-record VTBM (which, when fragmented,
fits in three 1KB tunnel messaages) reduces network traffic and increases
build sucess rate, because smaller messages are less likely to be dropped.

The reply message must be the same type and length as the build message.

.. _tunnelCreate.requestRecord:

Request Record Specification
----------------------------

Also specified in the I2NP Specification [BRR]_.

Cleartext of the record, visible only to the hop being asked::

  bytes     0-3: tunnel ID to receive messages as
  bytes    4-35: local router identity hash
  bytes   36-39: next tunnel ID
  bytes   40-71: next router identity hash
  bytes  72-103: AES-256 tunnel layer key
  bytes 104-135: AES-256 tunnel IV key
  bytes 136-167: AES-256 reply key
  bytes 168-183: AES-256 reply IV
  byte      184: flags
  bytes 185-188: request time (in hours since the epoch, rounded down)
  bytes 189-192: next message ID
  bytes 193-221: uninterpreted / random padding

The next tunnel ID and next router identity hash fields are used to specify the
next hop in the tunnel, though for an outbound tunnel endpoint, they specify
where the rewritten tunnel creation reply message should be sent.  In addition,
the next message ID specifies the message ID that the message (or reply) should
use.

The tunnel layer key, tunnel IV key, reply key, and reply IV are each random
32-byte values generated by the creator, for use in this build request record
only.

The flags field contains the following::

 Bit order: 76543210 (bit 7 is MSB)
 bit 7: if set, allow messages from anyone
 bit 6: if set, allow messages to anyone, and send the reply to the
        specified next hop in a Tunnel Build Reply Message
 bits 5-0: Undefined, must set to 0 for compatibility with future options

Bit 7 indicates that the hop will be an inbound gateway (IBGW).  Bit 6
indicates that the hop will be an outbound endpoint (OBEP).  If neither bit is
set, the hop will be an intermediate participant.  Both cannot be set at once.

Request Record Creation
```````````````````````
Every hop gets a random Tunnel ID.
The current and next-hop Tunnel IDs are filled in.
Every record gets a random tunnel IV key, reply IV, layer key, and reply key.

.. _encryption:

Request Record Encryption
`````````````````````````
That cleartext record is ElGamal 2048 encrypted [CRYPTO-ELG]_ with the hop's
public encryption key and formatted into a 528 byte record::

  bytes   0-15: First 16 bytes of the SHA-256 of the current hop's router identity
  bytes 16-527: ElGamal-2048 encrypted request record

In the 512-byte encrypted record, the ElGamal data contains bytes 1-256 and
258-513 of the 514-byte ElGamal encrypted block [CRYPTO-ELG]_.  The two padding
bytes from the block (the zero bytes at locations 0 and 257) are removed.

Since the cleartext uses the full field, there is no need for additional
padding beyond ``SHA256(cleartext) + cleartext``.

Each 528-byte record is then iteratively encrypted (using AES decryption, with
the reply key and reply IV for each hop) so that the router identity will only
be in cleartext for the hop in question.

.. _tunnelCreate.hopProcessing:

Hop Processing and Encryption
-----------------------------

When a hop receives a TunnelBuildMessage, it looks through the records
contained within it for one starting with their own identity hash (trimmed to
16 bytes).  It then decrypts the ElGamal block from that record and retrieves
the protected cleartext.  At that point, they make sure the tunnel request is
not a duplicate by feeding the AES-256 reply key into a bloom filter.
Duplicates or invalid requests are dropped.

After deciding whether they will agree to participate in the tunnel or not,
they replace the record that had contained the request with an encrypted reply
block.  All other records are AES-256 encrypted [CRYPTO-AES]_ with the included
reply key and IV. Each is AES/CBC encrypted separately with the same reply key
and reply IV.  The CBC mode is not continued (chained) across records.

Each hop knows only its own response.  If it agrees, it will maintain the
tunnel until expiration, even if it will not be used, as it cannot know whether
all other hops agreed.

.. _tunnelCreate.replyRecord:

Reply Record Specification
``````````````````````````
After the current hop reads their record, they replace it with a reply record
stating whether or not they agree to participate in the tunnel, and if they do
not, they classify their reason for rejection.  This is simply a 1 byte value,
with 0x0 meaning they agree to participate in the tunnel, and higher values
meaning higher levels of rejection.

The following rejection codes are defined:

* TUNNEL_REJECT_PROBABALISTIC_REJECT = 10
* TUNNEL_REJECT_TRANSIENT_OVERLOAD = 20
* TUNNEL_REJECT_BANDWIDTH = 30
* TUNNEL_REJECT_CRIT = 50

To hide other causes, such as router shutdown, from peers, the current
implementation uses TUNNEL_REJECT_BANDWIDTH for almost all rejections.

The reply is encrypted with the AES session key delivered to it in the
encrypted block, padded with 495 bytes of random data to reach the full record
size.  The padding is placed before the status byte::

  AES-256-CBC(SHA-256(padding+status) + padding + status, key, IV)

  bytes   0-31 : SHA-256 of bytes 32-527
  bytes 32-526 : Random padding
  byte 527     : Reply value

This is also described in the I2NP spec [BRR]_.

.. _tunnelCreate.requestPreparation:

Tunnel Build Message Preparation
--------------------------------

When building a new Tunnel Build Message, all of the Build Request Records must
first be built and asymmetrically encrypted using ElGamal [CRYPTO-ELG]_.  Each
record is then premptively decrypted with the reply keys and IVs of the hops
earlier in the path, using AES [CRYPTO-AES]_.  That decryption should be run in
reverse order so that the asymmetrically encrypted data will show up in the
clear at the right hop after their predecessor encrypts it.

The excess records not needed for individual requests are simply filled with
random data by the creator.

.. _tunnelCreate.requestDelivery:

Tunnel Build Message Delivery
-----------------------------

For outbound tunnels, the delivery is done directly from the tunnel creator to
the first hop, packaging up the TunnelBuildMessage as if the creator was just
another hop in the tunnel.  For inbound tunnels, the delivery is done through
an existing outbound tunnel.  The outbound tunnel is generally from the same
pool as the new tunnel being built.  If no outbound tunnel is available in that
pool, an outbound exploratory tunnel is used.  At startup, when no outbound
exploratory tunnel exists yet, a fake 0-hop outbound tunnel is used.

.. _tunnelCreate.endpointHandling:

Tunnel Build Message Endpoint Handling
--------------------------------------

For creation of an outbound tunnel, when the request reaches an outbound
endpoint (as determined by the 'allow messages to anyone' flag), the hop is
processed as usual, encrypting a reply in place of the record and encrypting
all of the other records, but since there is no 'next hop' to forward the
TunnelBuildMessage on to, it instead places the encrypted reply records into a
TunnelBuildReplyMessage ([TBRM]_) or VariableTunnelBuildReplyMessage ([VTBRM]_)
(the type of message and number of records must match that of the request) and
delivers it to the reply tunnel specified within the request record.  That
reply tunnel forwards the Tunnel Build Reply Message back to the tunnel
creator, just as for any other message [TUNNEL-OP]_.  The tunnel creator then
processes it, as described below.

The reply tunnel was selected by the creator as follows: Generally it is an
inbound tunnel from the same pool as the new outbound tunnel being built.  If
no inbound tunnel is available in that pool, an inbound exploratory tunnel is
used.  At startup, when no inbound exploratory tunnel exists yet, a fake 0-hop
inbound tunnel is used.

For creation of an inbound tunnel, when the request reaches the inbound
endpoint (also known as the tunnel creator), there is no need to generate an
explicit Tunnel Build Reply Message, and the router processes each of the
replies, as below.

.. _tunnelCreate.replyProcessing:

Tunnel Build Reply Message Processing
-------------------------------------

To process the reply records, the creator simply has to AES decrypt each record
individually, using the reply key and IV of each hop in the tunnel after the
peer (in reverse order).  This then exposes the reply specifying whether they
agree to participate in the tunnel or why they refuse.  If they all agree, the
tunnel is considered created and may be used immediately, but if anyone
refuses, the tunnel is discarded.

The agreements and rejections are noted in each peer's profile
[PEER-SELECTION]_, to be used in future assessments of peer tunnel capacity.


.. _tunnelCreate.notes:

History and Notes
=================

This strategy came about during a discussion on the I2P mailing list between
Michael Rogers, Matthew Toseland (toad), and jrandom regarding the predecessor
attack.  See [TUNBUILD-SUMMARY]_, [TUNBUILD-REASONING]_.  It was introduced in
release 0.6.1.10 on 2006-02-16, which was the last time a
non-backward-compatible change was made in I2P.

Notes:

* This design does not prevent two hostile peers within a tunnel from
  tagging one or more request or reply records to detect that they are within
  the same tunnel, but doing so can be detected by the tunnel creator when
  reading the reply, causing the tunnel to be marked as invalid.

* This design does not include a proof of work on the asymmetrically
  encrypted section, though the 16 byte identity hash could be cut in half with
  the latter replaced by a hashcash function of up to 2^64 cost.

* This design alone does not prevent two hostile peers within a tunnel from
  using timing information to determine whether they are in the same tunnel.
  The use of batched and synchronized request delivery could help (batching up
  requests and sending them off on the (ntp-synchronized) minute).  However,
  doing so lets peers 'tag' the requests by delaying them and detecting the
  delay later in the tunnel, though perhaps dropping requests not delivered in
  a small window would work (though doing that would require a high degree of
  clock synchronization).  Alternately, perhaps individual hops could inject a
  random delay before forwarding on the request?

* Are there any nonfatal methods of tagging the request?

* The timestamp with a one-hour resolution is used for replay prevention. The
  constraint was not enforced until release 0.9.16.


.. _future:

Future Work
===========

* In the current implementation, the originator leaves one record empty
  for itself. Thus a message of n records can only build a tunnel of n-1 hops.
  This appears to be necessary for inbound tunnels (where the next-to-last hop
  can see the hash prefix for the next hop), but not for outbound tunnels.
  This is to be researched and verified.  If it is possible to use the
  remaining record without compromising anonymity, we should do so.

* Further analysis of possible tagging and timing attacks described in the
  above notes.

* The Bloom filter rotation time should be evaluated.

* Use only VTBM; do not select old peers that don't support it.

* The Build Request Record does not specify a tunnel lifetime or expiration;
  each hop expires the tunnel after 10 minutes, which is a network-wide
  hardcoded constant.  We could use a bit in the flag field and take 4 (or 8)
  bytes out of the padding to specify a lifetime or expiration.  The requestor
  would only specify this option if all participants supported it.


.. _ref:

References
==========

.. [BRR]
    {{ ctags_url('BuildRequestRecord') }}

.. [CRYPTO-AES]
    {{ site_url('docs/how/cryptography', True) }}#AES

.. [CRYPTO-ELG]
    {{ site_url('docs/how/cryptography', True) }}#elgamal

.. [HASHING-IT-OUT]
    http://www-users.cs.umn.edu/~hopper/hashing_it_out.pdf

.. [PEER-SELECTION]
    {{ site_url('docs/how/peer-selection', True) }}

.. [PREDECESSOR]
    http://forensics.umass.edu/pubs/wright-tissec.pdf

.. [PREDECESSOR-2008]
    http://forensics.umass.edu/pubs/wright.tissec.2008.pdf

.. [TBM]
    {{ ctags_url('TunnelBuild') }}

.. [TBRM]
    {{ ctags_url('TunnelBuildReply') }}

.. [TUNBUILD-REASONING]
    http://osdir.com/ml/network.i2p/2005-10/msg00129.html

.. [TUNBUILD-SUMMARY]
    http://osdir.com/ml/network.i2p/2005-10/msg00138.html

.. [TUNNEL-IMPL]
    {{ site_url('docs/tunnels/implementation', True) }}

.. [TUNNEL-OP]
    {{ site_url('docs/tunnels/implementation', True) }}#tunnel.operation

.. [VTBM]
    {{ ctags_url('VariableTunnelBuild') }}

.. [VTBRM]
    {{ ctags_url('VariableTunnelBuildReply') }}
