===========================================
{% trans -%}2.8.1 Release{%- endtrans %}
===========================================

.. meta::
    :author: zzz
    :date: 2025-03-17
    :category: release
    :excerpt: {% trans %}2.8.1 Release with local site access fix{% endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
2.8.1 fixes accesses to local sites that were broken in 2.8.0.
We have added notification bubbles to several applications in the console to highlight application messages.
We fixed a tunnel test bug that may have been affecting tunnel reliability.
The addressbook now has a new "latest" tab that displays the newest hostnames added from your subscriptions.
There are several dark theme fixes and improvements.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
We fixed the installer that previously failed on Java 21 or higher.
We also fixed installing to directory paths that contain spaces on Linux.
For those of you that use Docker, we updated outdated Docker container and container libraries.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
As usual, we recommend that you update to this release.
The best way to maintain security and help the network is to run the latest release.
{%- endtrans %}

**{% trans %}RELEASE DETAILS{% endtrans %}**

**{% trans %}Changes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}New console notification bubbles{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}New addressbook sort-by-latest tab{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Add support for .i2p.alt hostnames (RFC 9476){% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}Bug Fixes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Fix local site access bug{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix installer failure on Java 21+ (IzPack 5.2.4){% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix tunnel tests for outbound client tunnels{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix installing to paths with spaces (non-Windows){% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Console dark theme fixes and improvements{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix AIOOBE on large signed streaming packets{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix compression of Router Identities{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Update outdated Docker container and container libraries{% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}Other{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Add logo to first installer panel{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Add progress bar to installer panels{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Use SHA256 pool in Noise{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Move certs page to a debug page tab{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Reduce memory usage in AddressBean{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Set bulk profile for servers and i2psnark{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Prep for tunnel bandwidth parameters (proposal 168){% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Proxy error page improvements{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Check key order when parsing RI mappings{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Reduce i2psnark peer check interval{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Translation updates{% endtrans %}


`{% trans %}Full list of fixed bugs{% endtrans %}`__

__ http://{{ i2pconv('git.idk.i2p') }}/i2p-hackers/i2p.i2p/-/issues?scope=all&state=closed&milestone_title=2.9.0

**{% trans %}SHA256 Checksums:{% endtrans %}**

::
      
      013f30db4116711fdb5f78f21f55da9a883a7de110f9c5b6d4f1390d60cc3441  i2pinstall_2.8.1_windows.exe
      a2f590156b6c58574c54860afb196886bc23e609ec26c3797ad0ef27289727f3  i2pinstall_2.8.1.jar
      6af1b88404527d9f5f88a29434979e048ac9d6fdc6ad7f5edbd0b318a1a1e57d  i2psource_2.8.1.tar.bz2
      f4018ed081c0980f1cc4bc9e961ba49d7eda54babb06785220e54b54a58e150d  i2pupdate_2.8.1.zip
      c89433df991876952fa2e4d7ebf2cb8c705911b80f240e6ddd3d8cba4aabed58  i2pupdate.su3
