=============
{% trans %}0.9.5 Release{% endtrans %}
=============
.. meta::
   :date: 2013-03-08
   :category: release
   :excerpt: {% trans %}0.9.5 includes bug fixes and defenses for some issues and vulnerabilities that are being investigated by researchers at UCSB. We continue to work with them on additional improvements. This is a good opportunity to remind the community that while our network continues to grow rapidly, it is still relatively small. There may be multiple weaknesses or bugs that could compromise your anonymity. Help us grow the network by spreading the word and contributing where you can.{% endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
0.9.5 includes bug fixes and defenses for some issues and vulnerabilities that are being investigated by researchers at UCSB. We continue to work with them on additional improvements. This is a good opportunity to remind the community that while our network continues to grow rapidly, it is still relatively small. There may be multiple weaknesses or bugs that could compromise your anonymity. Help us grow the network by spreading the word and contributing where you can.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
In this upgrade cycle, a random 1% of routers, (plus all routers running a
development build) will attempt to update via the experimental in-network bittorrent
with i2psnark. If this doesn't work, it should fall back to standard in-network HTTP update.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
Files are available on the `download page`_.
{%- endtrans %}

.. _{% trans %}`download page`{% endtrans %}: {{ get_url('downloads_list') }}

**{% trans %}RELEASE DETAILS{% endtrans %}**

**{% trans %}Defenses and Bug Fixes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Fix router bug causing lockup when using iMule{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Recognize, handle, reject duplicate tunnel IDs{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix changing of the log file name{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Prevent hashcode attack in session tags{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Add build request throttler based on previous hop{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Limit concurrent next-hop lookups{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Catch exceptions storing nonces in console{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix saving graph settings in console{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix eepget generation of URLs when not proxied{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Encrypt database lookup messages end-to-end when sent through exploratory tunnels{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Don't use multiple floodfills from the same /16 in a query{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Randomize delay before verifying floodfill store{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Increase number of floodfills{% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}Other{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Improve support for mobile browsers{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Partial defenses for UCSB attacks{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Add announce list support to i2psnark{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Jetty: upgrade Apache Tomcat to 6.0.36{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Split router info files into multiple subdirectories{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Add IP to hostname mapping option in SOCKS{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Improve PRNG seeding{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Translation updates: French, German, Hungarian, Italian, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Swedish{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Update GeoIP data (new installs and PPA only){% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Update wrapper to 3.5.17 (new installs and PPA only){% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}SHA256 Checksums:{% endtrans %}**

::

    d904878f1feb758afb75cae31af52e3504b43b5ff531c060d902145a19eec56e  i2pinstall_0.9.5_windows.exe
    af251596e034b751dc17b73bd35254b94f92d4a3121a6e96479c45c4d846ab30  i2pinstall_0.9.5.jar
    441eac3cb7f25c03e7711c7d516626dc86ba6ad373145ab802d150848262c7c2  i2psource_0.9.5.tar.bz2
    d20c3f3845c1f4a4cf734dc69cae7de72ff0874cea1382d03d8ac953c50fb139  i2pupdate_0.9.5.zip
    06720a0f5067f4efdd1518f0dd1a2f7e65c78c76ae1e4dbd4b4ff72df65299ed  i2pupdate.su2
    a14f5cfc3b50cbab73b7da8faba48f84e3afb91f112923c5249b6f053291e450  i2pupdate.sud
