============================================
{% trans -%}I2P 2.6.0 Release{%- endtrans %}
============================================

.. meta::
    :author: idk
    :date: 2024-07-19
    :category: release
    :excerpt: {% trans %}I2P 2.6.0 Release{% endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
This release, I2P 2.6.0, continues our work by fixing bugs, adding features, and improving the network's reliability.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
Newer routers will be favored when selecting floodfill routers.
I2PSnark received features which improve the performance of PeX(Peer Exchange), in addition to bug fixes.
Legacy transport protocols are being removed, simplifying the code in the UDP transports.
Locally-hosted destination will be reachable by local clients without requesting their LeaseSet, improving performance and testability.
Additional tweaks were made to peer selection strategies.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
I2P no longer allows I2P-over-Tor, connections from Tor exit IP addresses are now blocked.
We discourage this because it degrades the performance of I2P and uses up the resources of Tor exits for no benefit.
If you are a helpful person running both a Tor Exit and I2P we encourage you to continue to do so, using different IP addresses for each.
Non-exit relays and Tor clients are unaffected by this and do not need to change anything.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
As usual, we recommend that you update to this release.
The best way to maintain security and help the network is to run the latest release.
{%- endtrans %}

**{% trans %}RELEASE DETAILS{% endtrans %}**

**{% trans %}Changes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Router: Increase minimum version for floodfill routers{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Router: Disable I2P over Tor{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Address Book: Cache locally hosted destinations{% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}Bug Fixes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}I2PSnark: Peer Exchange Tweaks{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}I2PSnark: Bugfixes{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Router: Peer Selection Tweaks{% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}Other{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Translation updates{% endtrans %}


`{% trans %}Full list of fixed bugs{% endtrans %}`__

__ http://{{ i2pconv('git.idk.i2p') }}/i2p-hackers/i2p.i2p/-/issues?scope=all&state=closed&milestone_title=2.6.0

**{% trans %}SHA256 Checksums:{% endtrans %}**

::
      
     sum    file
