============================================
{% trans -%}I2P 2.6.0 Release{%- endtrans %}
============================================

.. meta::
    :author: idk
    :date: 2024-07-19
    :category: release
    :excerpt: {% trans %}I2P 2.6.0 Release{% endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
This release, I2P 2.6.0, continues our work by fixing bugs, adding features, and improving the network's reliability.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
Newer routers will be favored when selecting floodfill routers.
I2PSnark received features which improve the performance of PeX(Peer Exchange), in addition to bug fixes.
Legacy transport protocols are being removed, simplifying the code in the UDP transports.
Locally-hosted destination will be reachable by local clients without requesting their LeaseSet, improving performance and testability.
Additional tweaks were made to peer selection strategies.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
I2P no longer allows I2P-over-Tor, connections from Tor exit IP addresses are now blocked.
We discourage this because it degrades the performance of I2P and uses up the resources of Tor exits for no benefit.
If you are a helpful person running both a Tor Exit and I2P we encourage you to continue to do so, using different IP addresses for each.
Non-exit relays and Tor clients are unaffected by this and do not need to change anything.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
As usual, we recommend that you update to this release.
The best way to maintain security and help the network is to run the latest release.
{%- endtrans %}

**{% trans %}RELEASE DETAILS{% endtrans %}**

**{% trans %}Changes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Router: Increase minimum version for floodfill routers{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Router: Disable I2P over Tor{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Address Book: Cache locally hosted destinations{% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}Bug Fixes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}I2PSnark: Peer Exchange Tweaks{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}I2PSnark: Bugfixes{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Router: Peer Selection Tweaks{% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}Other{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Translation updates{% endtrans %}


`{% trans %}Full list of fixed bugs{% endtrans %}`__

__ http://{{ i2pconv('git.idk.i2p') }}/i2p-hackers/i2p.i2p/-/issues?scope=all&state=closed&milestone_title=2.6.0

**{% trans %}SHA256 Checksums:{% endtrans %}**

::
      
    13f2e6b3cc9716c89c4d4d3bc9918171fbad5f450171e1c32b1237b5421bc065  i2pinstall_2.6.0_windows.exe
    42ac34e4c67cf5e2582853f0cf3074f6a73ea59503e1350e1b687cee3f849814  i2pinstall_2.6.0_windows.exe.sig
    24cda3f04e8c2e976b73bd45d36d0e31217e28fbe3019bf9a9d839b45d60537a  i2pinstall_2.6.0.jar
    249b35c1e061e194ee18048b0644cc5e2c5cf785ffce655e3124eb959dc189ff  i2psource_2.6.0.tar.bz2
    2867d752f6fb89a7a5ada4f4123ca601ad8d78ff78f553a9269bf0ddffe724ca  i2pupdate_2.6.0.zip
    be6ac988497ac0336d21cdfc57bbbe3cc5cffd983ac3282fd8ea11914e18e7ee  i2pupdate.su3
