{% trans -%}
==============
0.9.19 Release
==============
{%- endtrans %}
.. meta::
   :author: zzz
   :date: 2015-04-12
   :category: release
   :excerpt: {% trans %}0.9.19 with performance improvements and bug fixes{% endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
0.9.19 has several fixes and improvements for floodfill performance.
Many of you saw high CPU usage after 0.9.18 was released.
This was caused by a combination of increased encryption usage, the big influx of Vuze users into the network,
reduced floodfills due to tighter performance requirements, and some longstanding bugs.
Things should be a lot better after most of the network has updated.
As always, the best way to reduce CPU usage is to lower your bandwidth limits.
{%- endtrans %}
{% trans -%}
We've also added new ways to reseed manually, and to generate a reseed file you can easily share with others who need it.
See the reseed configuration page in the router console for more information.
{%- endtrans %}
{% trans -%}
As usual, we recommend that you update to this release. The best way to
maintain security and help the network is to run the latest release.
{%- endtrans %}


**{% trans %}RELEASE DETAILS{% endtrans %}**

**{% trans %}Changes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Floodfill performance improvements{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Easier ways to reseed manually from a file or URL{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}New way to export reseed data for others{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Support for installing plugin from file{% endtrans %}


**{% trans %}Bug Fixes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Fixes for high CPU usage in floodfills{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}i2ptunnel locking fixes{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fixes for read timeout handling in streaming{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix changing i2psnark data directory on Windows{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix multiple SSL outproxies in HTTP client{% endtrans %}


**{% trans %}Other{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Update to UPnP library version 3.0{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Improve tracking of floodfill lookup success{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Direct router info lookups if connected to floodfill{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Auto-adjustment of i2psnark tunnel quantity{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Increase exploratory tunnel quantity when floodfill{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Increase min and default bandwidth for i2psnark{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Improved strategies for dropping jobs on high job lag to prevent overload{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Drop tunnel build requests on high job lag{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Increase allowed clock skew in I2CP{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}New HTTP error page when the server resets the connection{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Require ECDSA support for floodfill{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Republish router info faster when capabilities change{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Better feedback in console for reseed errors{% endtrans %}
- Apache Tomcat 6.0.43
- {% trans %}Translation updates{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Update GeoIP data (new installs and PPA only){% endtrans %}


**{% trans %}SHA256 Checksums:{% endtrans %}**

::

     cbafee2a9fa54d6087b1d7a48cb5bb228a2a79c64240f7c533edac1fa985483f  i2pinstall_0.9.19_windows.exe
     d16f68fff3a34d161843a09e90fff1ac5eae8ccb319a43257244ec0e764a11c1  i2pinstall_0.9.19.jar
     0addf3ea05c5e5dc297d1af09dda7787a731865418a34b5a88cb770c7314b12f  i2psource_0.9.19.tar.bz2
     e28e45877033cb6b70070066a93aa3b22b32ec4a5d6df2790083f87a04e5fd85  i2pupdate_0.9.19.zip
     c8e7996faeb73550ff48062d611029f683a61130334038244f8550525404ee8d  i2pupdate.su2
     07a2e0fccb8e433ea24ba600966652b9b71c3401fa64f58ac8cbf2609aaf882b  i2pupdate.su3
     375672b4c773919169d2f15b961fd8ae6e4b01239c8a39e7dba342c32b2a8ea9  i2pupdate.sud

