=======================================
{% trans %}0.9.6 Release{% endtrans %}
=======================================

.. meta::
   :date: 2013-05-28
   :category: release
   :excerpt: {% trans %}0.9.6 includes bug fixes and an update from Jetty 6.1.26 (2010-11-10) to Jetty 7.6.10 (2013-03-12). See below for important information on the Jetty update. The Jetty 7 series is actively maintained and we plan to stay current with it in future I2P releases.{% endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
0.9.6 includes bug fixes and an update from Jetty 6.1.26 (2010-11-10) to Jetty 7.6.10 (2013-03-12). See below for important information on the Jetty update. The Jetty 7 series is actively maintained and we plan to stay current with it in future I2P releases.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
Most users will update via HTTP. Those running development builds will attempt to update via the
experimental in-network bittorrent with i2psnark. We've fixed some bugs that will enable more users
to update via torrent in the 0.9.7 update cycle.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
Files are available on the `download page`__.
{%- endtrans %}

__ {{ get_url('downloads_list') }}

**{% trans %}Important fix for Windows Eepsites, first install 0.9.5 only{% endtrans %}**

{% trans -%}
If you first installed I2P with version 0.9.5, on Windows only, we recommend that you follow the
following instructions to fix your eepsite location **before** you update to 0.9.6.
Only original installations of 0.9.5-0 on Windows are affected by this issue. If your router version
is 0.9.5-0-win1, you already have the fix and need not take any action.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
See `this page`__ for instructions.
{%- endtrans %}

__ {{ site_url('misc/ticket919') }}

**{% trans %}Jetty 7 Migration Details{% endtrans %}**

**{% trans -%}
For most people, the update should just work. If you have multiple Jetty eepsites,
OR have made changes to jetty.xml or other Jetty configuration files, including changing the port
from 7658, you MUST take manual action AFTER updating.
{%- endtrans %}**

* {% trans %}After update, the router will migrate your jetty.xml files to the new Jetty 7 format.{% endtrans %}

* {% trans %}The migration resets the port to 7658. If you have more than one Jetty eepsite, OR your eepsite
  is NOT on port 7658, OR you have made other modifications to jetty.xml (for example changing the
  listen address from 127.0.0.1 to 0.0.0.0), you MUST edit the jetty.xml file for each eepsite to fix them up
  after updating, and restart again.{% endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
**The following files will be backed up with a &quot;.jetty6&quot; suffix and then migrated.**
If you have made local changes, you may have to edit them manually and restart.
See http://wiki.eclipse.org/Jetty for assistance in configuring Jetty 7.
{%- endtrans %}

* ~/.i2p/clients.config
* ~/.i2p/eepsite/jetty.xml
* ~/.i2p/eepsite/jetty-rewrite.xml
* ~/.i2p/eepsite/jetty-ssl.xml
* ~/.i2p/eepsite/contexts/base-context.xml
* ~/.i2p/eepsite/contexts/cgi-context.xml
* ~/.i2p/eepsite/etc/webdefault.xml

**{% trans %}Plugins{% endtrans %}**

{% trans -%}
Most plugins should work fine with Jetty 7.
{%- endtrans %}

* {% trans %}The I2PControl and zzzot plugins must be updated. Your router should download and install the new versions shortly after starting 0.9.6.{% endtrans %}

* {% trans %}If a plugin does not work, please contact the maintainer for that plugin.{% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}RELEASE DETAILS{% endtrans %}**

**{% trans %}Bug Fixes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Several bugs with Windows installation (see above){% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix default form action in i2ptunnel{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix links on iframed console pages{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Better detection of 64-bit Windows to prevent crashes by systray{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix bug preventing router update via torrent{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Several SSU fixes for NATs that change UDP ports{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Ignore unsupported IPs in RouterInfos when selecting an address (prep for IPv6){% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Ignore unused option bits in Database Lookup Message (prep for requesting encrypted response){% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix HTTP proxy error response for malformed URIs{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Recognize UPnP devices without port forwarding capability{% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}Other{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Jetty 7.6.10 (see above for migration information){% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Limit page size in i2psnark{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Add data directory and page size configuration to i2psnark{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Support multiple i2psnark instances{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Piece size adjustments in i2psnark{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Add more graphing support for combined bandwidth graph{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Block b32.i2p supercookies{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Allow stopping clients on /configclients{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Check for nonce count replays in HTTP client{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Support SASL authentication in IRC proxy{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Several cleanups and minor fixes in the update manager{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Translation updates: German, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, and Swedish{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Update GeoIP data (new installs and PPA only){% endtrans %}

**{% trans %}SHA256 Checksums:{% endtrans %}**

::

    bf7d11f0a36acff9cd51ad3ef89d66975b0b0de344ca72719a5576159ec965d1  i2pinstall_0.9.6_windows.exe
    2dd5b67920723dd94202a408de31671b1e9543fcd5611bbe79385cc14f93b371  i2pinstall_0.9.6.jar
    fd2aa881d68b3164c43de9d91dcb04a93a36228d416582ada14ae40031436d18  i2psource_0.9.6.tar.bz2
    f322de7a9e3e89411d072d983a6577494981da488bb08f839c521ed340d77b92  i2pupdate_0.9.6.zip
    31981027ff33c33f9a013a6fde1de847caab73630ad629e9ed6212fd76b54748  i2pupdate.su2
    7e88e8090b0cec16c0b47a2852607f8d256396213693924a9dcba72e605ec70e  i2pupdate.sud
