===========================================
{% trans -%}1.6.0 Release{%- endtrans %}
===========================================

.. meta::
   :author: zzz
   :date: 2021-11-29
   :category: release
   :excerpt: {% trans %}1.6.0 enables new tunnel build messages{% endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
Update details
{%- endtrans %}
============================================

{% trans -%}
This release completes the rollout of two major protocol updates developed in 2021.
The transition to X25519 encryption for routers is accelerated, and we expect almost all routers to be rekeyed by the end of the year.
Short tunnel build messages are enabled for a significant bandwidth reduction.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
We added a theme selection panel to the new install wizard.
We've improved SSU performance and fixed an issue with SSU peer test messages.
The tunnel build Bloom filter was adjusted to reduce memory usage.
We have enhanced support for non-Java plugins.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
In other news, we are making excellent progress on the design of our new UDP transport SSU2 and expect to start implementation early next year.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
As usual, we recommend that you update to this release. The best way to
maintain security and help the network is to run the latest release.
{%- endtrans %}


**{% trans %}RELEASE DETAILS{% endtrans %}**

**{% trans %}Changes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Console: Add theme selection to new-install wizard{% endtrans %}
- Jetty 9.3.30.v20211001
- {% trans %}Router: Increase probability of rekey to X25519{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}SSU: Performance improvements{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}SSU: Improve security of peer test{% endtrans %}
- Tomcat 9.0.54
- {% trans %}Tunnels: Enable sending new short build messages{% endtrans %}


**{% trans %}Bug Fixes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}i2ptunnel: Fix encryption type selection logic{% endtrans %}


**{% trans %}Other{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Improve support for non-Java plugins{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Router: Reduce tunnel build Bloom filter memory usage{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Updates: More changes to support bundled updaters{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Translation updates{% endtrans %}



`{% trans %}Full list of fixed bugs{% endtrans %}`__

__ https://i2pgit.org/i2p-hackers/i2p.i2p/-/issues?scope=all&state=closed&milestone_title=1.6.0
__ http://git.idk.i2p/i2p-hackers/i2p.i2p/-/issues?scope=all&state=closed&milestone_title=1.6.0


**{% trans %}SHA256 Checksums:{% endtrans %}**

::

	tbd
