===========================================
{% trans -%}0.9.42 Release{%- endtrans %}
===========================================

.. meta::
   :author: zzz
   :date: 2019-08-28
   :category: release
   :excerpt: {% trans %}0.9.42 with bug fixes{% endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
Update details
{%- endtrans %}
==============

{% trans -%}
0.9.42 continues the work to make I2P faster and more reliable.
It includes several changes to speed up our UDP transport.
We have split up the configuration files to enable future work for more modular packaging.
We continue work to implement new proposals for faster and more secure encryption.
There are, of course, a lot of bug fixes also.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
As usual, we recommend that you update to this release. The best way to
maintain security and help the network is to run the latest release.
{%- endtrans %}


**{% trans %}RELEASE DETAILS{% endtrans %}**

**{% trans %}Changes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Console: Split up help page, tag text for translation{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Console: Hide NetDB RI and LS tabs{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Debian: Update files for Buster{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}i2psnark: Add last-activity to details page{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}i2ptunnel: Split i2ptunnel.config into individual files per-tunnel{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}JBigI: GMP 6.1.2 (Linux 64-bit only){% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}NetDB: Choose alternate gateway for store replies to reduce connections{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Router: Split clients.config into individual files per-client{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}SSU: performance improvements{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Transports: Cross-network prevention (proposal 147){% endtrans %}


**{% trans %}Bug Fixes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}i2psnark: Autostart fixes{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}i2psnark: Dup. data checks{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}i2ptunnel: Failsafe timeouts{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}NetDB: Fix NPE on store of encrypted LS2{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Router: Fix Bloom filter false positives{% endtrans %}


**{% trans %}Other{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Initial support for encryption types{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Support for new LS2 bit for blinding (proposal 123){% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Unit test fixes{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Translation updates{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Update GeoIP data{% endtrans %}


`{% trans %}Full list of fixed bugs{% endtrans %}`__

__ http://{{ i2pconv('trac.i2p2.i2p') }}/query?resolution=fixed&milestone=0.9.42


**{% trans %}SHA256 Checksums:{% endtrans %}**

::


  08c0874b7ed1e97e8860166096a5efec73c8265ceacb69e50835023d681b4577  i2pinstall_0.9.42_windows.exe
  cb192e48c5f06839c99b71861364f3a9117b6b24f78f7f7c25d6716507c81bdf  i2pinstall_0.9.42.jar
  30482b56becb6135ed4b74bd4715906774f7c3f3302753985a5fde363f0cc713  i2psource_0.9.42.tar.bz2
  fa4bb5a68e9089de9345b96d3b636fae5ffb6da22875108822451b3bda521c72  i2pupdate_0.9.42.zip
  8856439e3f5223046284ee7c3a0e6d7d2880129cc260ca54b300bea4aa7dff66  i2pupdate.su3

