{% trans -%}
==============
0.9.29 Release
==============
{%- endtrans %}
.. meta::
   :author: zzz
   :date: 2017-02-27
   :category: release
   :excerpt: {% trans %}0.9.29 contains bug fixes{% endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
Update details
==============
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
0.9.29 contains fixes for numerous Trac tickets, including workarounds for corrupt compressed messages.
We now support NTP over IPv6.
We've added preliminary Docker support.
We now have translated man pages.
We now pass same-origin Referer headers through the HTTP proxy.
There are more fixes for Java 9, although we do not yet recommend Java 9 for general use.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
As usual, we recommend that you update to this release. The best way to
maintain security and help the network is to run the latest release.
{%- endtrans %}


**{% trans %}RELEASE DETAILS{% endtrans %}**

**{% trans %}Changes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}BOB database refactor{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fixes for Java 9, still not recommended for general use{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}NTP fixes for security and standards{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}NTP IPv6 support{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Don't display very old news in console{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Blocklist checking improvements{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Add preliminary Docker support{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Add Referrer-Policy headers to console{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Pass same-origin Referer headers through proxy{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Translated man pages{% endtrans %}


**{% trans %}Bug Fixes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Add support for outproxy plugin to CONNECT proxy{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Replace random tunnel keys when rekeying{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix streaming optional delay and choking{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Don't hard fail on message expired error in streaming{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix javadoc errors{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix broken unit tests{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Ensure i2psnark finishes writing config files at shutdown{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix rare NPE in AES via NTCP{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Disable caching of compressors, in an attempt to fix corruption{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Don't close SAM or BOB session on receipt of corrupt compressed data{% endtrans %}


**{% trans %}Other{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Add support for ports to CONNECT proxy{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Consolidate stream copy code{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Consolidate console timer threads{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}{% trans %}New streaming test harness{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Translation updates{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Update GeoIP data (new installs and PPA only){% endtrans %}


`Full list of fixed bugs`_

.. _{% trans %}`Full list of fixed bugs`{% endtrans %}: http://{{ i2pconv('trac.i2p2.i2p') }}/query?resolution=fixed&milestone=0.9.29


**{% trans %}SHA256 Checksums:{% endtrans %}**

::


