{% trans -%}
==============
0.9.29 Release
==============
{%- endtrans %}

.. meta::
   :author: zzz
   :date: 2017-02-27
   :category: release
   :excerpt: {% trans %}0.9.29 contains bug fixes{% endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
Update details
==============
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
0.9.29 contains fixes for numerous Trac tickets, including workarounds for corrupt compressed messages.
We now support NTP over IPv6.
We've added preliminary Docker support.
We now have translated man pages.
We now pass same-origin Referer headers through the HTTP proxy.
There are more fixes for Java 9, although we do not yet recommend Java 9 for general use.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
As usual, we recommend that you update to this release. The best way to
maintain security and help the network is to run the latest release.
{%- endtrans %}


**{% trans %}RELEASE DETAILS{% endtrans %}**

**{% trans %}Changes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}BOB database refactor{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fixes for Java 9, still not recommended for general use{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}NTP fixes for security and standards{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}NTP IPv6 support{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Don't display very old news in console{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Blocklist checking improvements{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Add preliminary Docker support{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Add Referrer-Policy headers to console{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Pass same-origin Referer headers through proxy{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Translated man pages{% endtrans %}


**{% trans %}Bug Fixes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Add support for outproxy plugin to CONNECT proxy{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Replace random tunnel keys when rekeying{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix streaming optional delay and choking{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Don't hard fail on message expired error in streaming{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix javadoc errors{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix broken unit tests{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Ensure i2psnark finishes writing config files at shutdown{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix rare NPE in AES via NTCP{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Disable caching of compressors, in an attempt to fix corruption{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Don't close SAM or BOB session on receipt of corrupt compressed data{% endtrans %}


**{% trans %}Other{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Add support for ports to CONNECT proxy{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Consolidate stream copy code{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Consolidate console timer threads{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}New streaming test harness{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Translation updates{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Update GeoIP data (new installs and PPA only){% endtrans %}


`{% trans %}Full list of fixed bugs{% endtrans %}`__

__ http://{{ i2pconv('trac.i2p2.i2p') }}/query?resolution=fixed&milestone=0.9.29


**{% trans %}SHA256 Checksums:{% endtrans %}**

::

     acf31ea103fb7fa0622118d67092541b70b0af2cf8475492986d4089f40ea6fe  i2pinstall_0.9.29_windows.exe      (Crashes in installer, removed 2017-03-04)
     cc10ef2181be01e27c69963faabdbc70e6e7f4191d69cab2d10abb4ec5dce9b4  i2pinstall_0.9.29-win1_windows.exe (Fix for installer, added 2017-03-04)
     1b74e29ea375a15eebb5ec2f9b190f5f001a2e5b1193d2db657ce8a69c369934  i2pinstall_0.9.29.jar
     67da4ce224fef2b190ffeed5dba102a3b7724f061b1c168255625c028a97c3a7  i2psource_0.9.29.tar.bz2
     f927ca4eda5a07c1e93ed8096df87d8fb0a516e64176d9efd645523aa7711a42  i2pupdate_0.9.29.zip
     e77040937972b24eb37ab37aeb90a9cad64c3baa74858ee774295cc007dfca48  i2pupdate.su3

