===========================================
{% trans -%}0.9.44 Release{%- endtrans %}
===========================================

.. meta::
   :author: zzz
   :date: 2019-12-01
   :category: release
   :excerpt: {% trans %}0.9.44 with bug fixes{% endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
Update details
{%- endtrans %}
==============

{% trans -%}
0.9.44 contains an important fix for a denial of service issue in hidden services handling of new encryption types.
All users should update as soon as possible.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
The release includes initial support for new end-to-end encryption (proposal 144).
Work continues on this project, and it is not yet ready for use.
There are changes to the console home page, and new embedded HTML5 media players in i2psnark.
Additional fixes for firewalled IPv6 networks are included.
Tunnel build fixes should result in faster startup for some users.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
As usual, we recommend that you update to this release. The best way to
maintain security and help the network is to run the latest release.
{%- endtrans %}


**{% trans %}RELEASE DETAILS{% endtrans %}**

**{% trans %}Changes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Console home page changes{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Initial code for new encryption (proposal 144){% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Router changes to support multiple encryption types{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}HTML5 players in i2psnark{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Audio playlist in i2psnark{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Change Windows data location to %LOCALAPPDIR% (new installs only){% endtrans %}



**{% trans %}Bug Fixes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Fix AppArmor config for Java 11{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix handling of unsupported encryption types{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}IPv6 firewalled fixes{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix long stop delay for some plugins{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix custom icons for some plugins{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix exploratory tunnel build issues causing long startup times{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Prevent multiple zero-hop tunnels in a pool{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Recognize gettext 0.20 in build scripts{% endtrans %}



**{% trans %}Other{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Don't check clove ID in Bloom filter{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Reduce SessionTag memory usage{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Change default sig type to EdDSA for Android{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Translation updates{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Update GeoIP data{% endtrans %}


`{% trans %}Full list of fixed bugs{% endtrans %}`__

__ http://{{ i2pconv('trac.i2p2.i2p') }}/query?resolution=fixed&milestone=0.9.44


**{% trans %}SHA256 Checksums:{% endtrans %}**

::

    4d25819a846a461e6e87caf7f44dd03eb755d502e8efe990bfb0dc5af2ce9d5f  i2pinstall_0.9.44_windows.exe
    265729c1d676939bc81f96689b72c5f413083f4bbd849393f7629db05523d238  i2pinstall_0.9.44.jar
    9f03a636e2dc7e25455fb75869b3a8313fd177d231e056b0556159efec4d6d9d  i2psource_0.9.44.tar.bz2
    e0d8a79c0dc7bfd14303ddf0b4affa3daffa1d87b4e9464d458b7db56789a683  i2pupdate_0.9.44.zip
    fa3d99420e98014b19515c417dc3c086e9c66684df3c05d6c3fb008c24289f31  i2pupdate.su3


