===========================================
{% trans -%}0.9.34 Release{%- endtrans %}
===========================================

.. meta::
   :author: zzz
   :date: 2019-05-07
   :category: release
   :excerpt: {% trans %}0.9.40 with new icons{% endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
Update details
{%- endtrans %}
==============

{% trans -%}
0.9.40 includes support for the new encrypted leaseset format.
We disabled the old NTCP 1 transport protocol.
There's a new SusiDNS import feature, and a new scripted filtering mechanism for incoming connections.
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
We've made a lot of improvements to the OSX native installer, and we've updated the IzPack installer as well.
The work continues on refreshing the console with new icons.
As usual, we've fixed lots of bugs as well!
{%- endtrans %}

{% trans -%}
As usual, we recommend that you update to this release. The best way to
maintain security and help the network is to run the latest release.
{%- endtrans %}


**{% trans %}RELEASE DETAILS{% endtrans %}**

**{% trans %}Changes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Change installer to IzPack 5.1.3{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Change Windows installer from launch4j to izpack2exe{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Sign Windows installer{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Console, SusiDNS: New icons{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Disable NTCP 1{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}New SusiDNS import feature{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Add UI and router support for Encrypted LS2 (proposal 123){% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Add support for new base 32 format for Encrypted LS2{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}New incoming connection filter for i2ptunnel{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Add Red25519 signature type option for server tunnels{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}OSX: Theme selection, auto updater, upgrade to newer swift version{% endtrans %}


**{% trans %}Bug Fixes{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}Several fixes for Android{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fixes for SSU disabled (NTCP only){% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fixes for encrypted LS2 (proposal 123){% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fix for rare 100% CPU in NTCP{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Fixes for NTCP 1 disabled{% endtrans %}


**{% trans %}Other{% endtrans %}**

- {% trans %}New supported Docker image{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Support for SAM 3.2 features in SAM libraries{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Remove connect delay, profile, and I2CP options in i2ptunnel UI{% endtrans %}
- Tomcat 8.5.40
- {% trans %}Translation updates{% endtrans %}
- {% trans %}Update GeoIP data{% endtrans %}


`{% trans %}Full list of fixed bugs{% endtrans %}`__

__ http://{{ i2pconv('trac.i2p2.i2p') }}/query?resolution=fixed&milestone=0.9.40


**{% trans %}SHA256 Checksums:{% endtrans %}**

::


     8b608dcef452a19fd4d5746884ee12bdd9537fef5a2a6fcb6c400c430d2a107a  i2pinstall_0.9.40_windows.exe
     b5dac73d1683ebfa9b58475c2dddc6ffc40efa6622278d133688af73db428381  i2pinstall_0.9.40.jar
     5d31e0a324dfe429135ac17595b3cab3e81d85d4aa7a720db402dec47bfeda23  i2psource_0.9.40.tar.bz2
     0aeaf2d670f23942953408f669fe2f636afb4d22bdccc834b8741ad740f1d019  i2pupdate_0.9.40.zip
     327b3a01d9a8be808f8ffe2c5b7e1b8eb586640a14b103212f252c1c2d56d2dc  i2pupdate.su3
